---
layout: post
title: Microencapsulation of *Lactobacillus plantarum* 299v Strain with Whey Proteins by Lyophilization and Its Application in Production of Probiotic Apple Juices
---

Proteins coated probiotic microcapsules can be applied to the apple juice to develop a functional probiotic beverage. 
The viability of probiotics is strictly influenced by the production, storage, and digestion, while microencapsulation 
is a technology that can protect them against harsh environments. In this study, the impact of different core-to-wall 
ratios and wall material formulations on physical properties and the cell number of the microcapsules were investigated. 
The samples with core-to-wall ratio 1:1 have a significantly higher cell number, encapsulation efficiency, 
and bulk density than samples with core-to-wall ratio 1:1.5. The yields of the encapsulation method were changes in 
the opposite direction. Meanwhile, core-to-wall ratios and formulation have a significant effect on the cell number of 
the microcapsules during the in vitro SGJ test, whereas time, core-to-wall ratios, and formulation have 
a similar influence in the in vitro SIJ test. Moreover, probiotic apple juices stored at 4 °C for 6 weeks kept the highest 
cell number at the end. Furthermore, probiotic apple juices fortified by microcapsules coated with WP:DWP 1:1 in 
core-to-wall ratio 1:1 and stored at 4 °C for 4–8 weeks exhibited a significantly lower pH value. In summary,
both whey proteins and denatured whey proteins are as good as coating material for microencapsulation of probiotic bacteria 
*Lactobacillus plantarum* 299v strains. These microcapsules have high potential in the production of probiotic apple juice 
even by fermentation or fortification methods.

Paper is freely available**[here](https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/13/1/318)**

In case you have any questions regarding the paper, do not hesitate to contact me by [email](mailto:gereattilaphd@gmail.com)!